- [Instructor] So far, the health checks
that we've looked at, we get by default
and of course, by exposing those
that we don't get by default.
If the application is running,
the default health check will consider the application
and the disk health indicator.
If we're using a database in our application
then we would automatically get a database health indicator.
We could as well add any number
of preconfigured actuators
just by adding the appropriate spring boot starter API
like what we see here.
And this would cause the appropriate JSON health indicators
to show up in our overall application health.
The way these health check indicators work,
is that if one is down,
the overall application health will show as down.
You can also create custom health indicators
which can be invaluable
if your application has a dependency upon another service.
And if that service is down, you may want to alert
that this service has a health indicator issue.
Let's go ahead and create,
a quick example demonstrating this.
For this project, we are using 0106 begin,
loaded in intelliJ.
Once the project is open,
let's navigate down to com,
MDR solutions dot spring boot prod,
we'll right click, add new package.
We'll call this health
then we'll right click on the health
and we'll create a new Java class.
We're going to call this Java class,
data web service API health indicator.
We're calling this health indicator,
data web service API health indicator,
because we are supposing
that we have a fictitious web service
that our application will be using
to source some specific data.
And our health indicator
is going to monitor this service API for status.
Okay, with that done,
next let's go ahead and have our health indicator
implement spring boot health indicator.
Now, as you can see, IntelliJ is alerting us that,
we need to implement some of the abstract methods
of that class, specifically the health method.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Currently, the health method is returning null.
We'll fix that in a moment with a stubbed out method
but first, let's go ahead and add at component or a class.
And then, we're going to go down just a few spaces below,
we're going to type private, Boolean is service up,
this is going to return true.
Then we're going to modify our health method.
We're going to start by typing, if is service up,
is not service up and inside of this,
we're going to have a return statement.
We're going to use the health object,
the down method with detail
and we're going to create in a moment, a static final key,
this is going to be message key
and our object value here is going to be down as a string.
We'll finish this with the build syntax.
Below this, we'll have a normal return.
This will be health up with detail,
same message key
and this will include the string up
and we'll call the build method.
Now, the last thing we need to do here
is define this message key.
We'll go here one line
and type private, static, final string,
message key equals
and we're going to give this the name of our service,
data web service API.
Okay, with that done, let's go ahead and save it,
go down to our terminal window,
access the clean build, hit enter.
And when that's done,
we'll go ahead and run the application.
There we go.
Once the application is started,
let's go back to our Chrome browser window,
where we have loggers.
We're going to change this health and we'll hit enter.
So we can see here, our custom health indicator
and the message.
We see our data web service API,
the status is up and the details is the data web service API
with an up status.
Let's go ahead and change this again,
but this time let's change our return value
from true, false,
we'll save it, control+C in the terminal window,
clean and build it.
We'll rerun the application.
We'll open our application again, we'll refresh it.
We can see that the status is down,
the data web service API is down and so forth.
Now this code of course is stubbed out,
but hopefully you see,
how you could create this actuator endpoint
based on a rest template call to another service
and reflect statuses of maybe a 404, a 403,
500 or even 200 HTTP codes.
This example demonstrates how you can go
about creating other needed health checks
for your applications before you go to production.